Okay, so if you've got an archetype at one end of the spectrum for digital books, and it might be Cornell, which is really interested in extremely high-quality images and, for example, the ability to replicate back to paper as well as the ability to go online,
we're kind of in the middle, where we're juggling images, although our images are imperfect, and we're juggling text, although our texts are imperfect.
At the other end of the spectrum from Cornell, there's an activity which usually sort of comes under the term electronic text, and it's involved scholars, and a central feature of it is what's called, is a...
a set of guidelines and a standard called the Text Encoding Initiative.
The Humanities Endowment has funded the Text Encoding Initiative.
There's a guy at the University of Chicago named Michael Sperberg, S-P-E-R-G, S-P-E-R-B-E-R-G hyphen McQueen.
And Michael Sperberg McQueen, and there's people elsewhere that are involved in the Text Encoding Initiative.
And the idea there is, and their tool is...
Standard Generalized Markup Language, or S-G-M-L.
M, M like Mike.
Standard Generalized Markup Language.
And their idea, they too have modified.
I'm sort of going back.
But their archetype wasn't to get the book artifacts back on paper.
You know, Cornell wants to get...
give me back the book on paper.
Which, in fact, they do.
They actually do.
Right.
Okay.
Sperberg, McLean, and the Text and Coding Initiative's archetype is, I care not about the book.
You know, it's merely ink on paper.
I want the text, you know, the sacred text, as it were, that's within the book.
And they use this SGML in order to retain things that aren't just in the letter forms.
In other words, you need to know
which parts of the text were emphasized, which is marked by bold or italics.
You need to know where the chapters are, whatever it is.
So you need to add markup.
And you can also annotate or interpret, and you can embed annotations, but they're separable because you've used the markup language to make them separable.
So there's this whole shtick about the text qua text,
I mean, I can imagine someone trying to do a definitive Shakespeare play in that way, in which the markup language takes each line and tells you how it appears in all of the different folios.
Anyway, so it's for text analysis.
It's had a lot of historical connection with linguistics.
There's been a huge amount of work done in Greek and Latin classical studies with this SGML markup and text markup.
There must be a lot of literature on it.
Yeah.
Well, one place is Ask David Seaman when you're down there.
Another place is there's something called the Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities, C-E-T-H, which is jointly run by Rutgers and Princeton, and they have a newsletter.
The Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities.
And what was interesting to us, and we actually have a paper online at our website.
If you look at our background papers, there's an electronic text paper off the American Memory homepage.
The American Memory homepage has background papers listed at the bottom, and we actually had a conference on this subject and wrote a
a proceedings document which has names and addresses in it, so you can try to find that.
What do I look for?
Where on the webpage?
On the American Memory homepage, if you scroll down, at the bottom of the American Memory homepage, there's a thing you can click called Background and Technical Papers, or Technical and Background Papers, and it's a menu, and somewhere on that menu is the proceedings of this
conference in 1992 but yeah there you go and and you sort of have these archetypes now they've all modified their archetypes uh you know whereas the cornell people started image only now they've got texts they started going back to paper only now they go online well by the same token spurberg and mcqueen and those guys started out saying no no no images
and now they're ready to embrace images.
Well, I think there's a certain amount.
Our 1992 report is maybe a little earlier.
But the interesting thing, and one of the ways that David Seaman—oh, the other thing was, with SGML, it's software independent.
Really?
It's a markup language.
It's really like compositors' markup.
It meant that if you have software that you like, you can load the file into it, and then you can do whatever you want because you're using your software.
David's very good on this.
But what they've started doing now is they've started imaging books at Virginia, and they image in a way that mixes what we do and what Cornell does.
They use a cradle.
They're doing first editions.
They're not destroying them.
But they're making really high-quality images.
I mean, he's making 500 dot per inch full-color images of pages that, to you and I, are black ink on white paper.
I mean, it isn't quite white paper.
It's brownish paper, you know?
But he's doing what I would call museum artifact photography.
So if Cornell is the archetype of the book as a replicable object,
You know, he's the archetype for imaging of the book as museum artifact.
At least that would be my buzzword, you know.
And again, we're somewhere in the middle, you know, trying to have, you know, the book as accessible artifacts.
Also into the electronic tech stuff and SGML markup and a lot of nuances, and I got it right.
Okay.
You're very generous.
Have you been in the Stacks?
I haven't been.
Can you take me down?
Chief Collections Management Division.
I'm in charge of General Collections.
Are you familiar with the library and the different custodial divisions and how they operate?
Yes, but I've not actually visited the Stacks at all.
The General Collections are primarily housed in the Jefferson House.
And they constitute about 10 million volumes in most subjects.
Book typing through, books bound for the article, printing through, in almost every subject in L.C.
classification, except through law and music.
There's a separate law library, except for music, right?
As I said, there are about 10 million volumes in the collection, and the collection is increasing with a net rate of about a quarter million volumes a year.
We've got printed books, though.
Printed books in the general collections are coming in at the rate of about 1,000 a day.
So we still have a lot of books, and that could not be changed or radically... So if it's a quarter of a million books, and we only publish 55,000 books in the United States,
That leads me to believe that you're going to get 200,000 books from offshore.
Well, plus bound periodically.
Right.
But you are a major.
We do have a large collection.
That's right.
And it's part of the mandate of the library to do that.
Are you a librarian?
Yes.
We've got books in...
Most languages are general collections.
Most European languages, Cyrillic, alphabet.
There is a separate Asian division, which has Japanese, Chinese, Korean, separate African, Middle Eastern division, Hebrew, Hebraic, and other collections.
Obviously, our challenge is to store and serve an ever-growing number of books that are not rapidly being replaced by other media.
So for at least the foreseeable future, we're probably going to continue at 1,000 books a day.
And so when 1,000... All right.
Okay.
We anticipated the question.
1,000 books come in.
Does that mean 1,000 books must leave?
At this point, we are what we consider overflowing.
We had some guidelines that we developed years ago on when we consider the stacks to be functionally full, which means
you can kind of manage your collection.
It doesn't mean that every shelf is 100% full.
If there's been a classified collection, that's open in the world.
So how do you think about 80 to 85% would be functionally full?
I mean, beyond that, you really have to spot a lot of major shifting.
And since collections don't grow equal, you know, on subject, you have to do a lot of shifting and spend a lot of money.
I'm doing that just to accommodate your holdings.
Once you get beyond 90s, you consider that kind of catastrophic.
I mean, it's just, you can't do it.
Books appear on the floor on top of other books.
There isn't enough space elsewhere to make things for sure.
And, uh... It's not like finding space for one more book.
No, I mean, you have to because your classes grow at a very different rate.
And...
You know, you can't just keep putting books on the end of any shelf in this space.
It's got to be in order.
This is a Jefferson building, which is the old building.
And you've been in the main room, don't you?
Yes, I have.
Many times.
So you've been in the main room?
No, I've got a neoplate here.
Right.
So this building, when it was built, houses probably five million volumes.
And this is a Jefferson building.
This is a classic L.C.
building.
I'll take you up to the spot.
That will be a treat.
We've been trying to get off-site storage for years.
And finally, we are to get space out of 14 units.
And we're planning to build a number of modules there, but the first module would be four book-type materials.
Let's come down for the honor.
Will this be the Harvard model?
It's the Harvard model.
So we have a lot of instructions and field trips with Harvard to build the theater.
That's just something to see, isn't it, how they put that thing?
Oh, yeah.
And they're in their fourth module.
Will it be done in the same manner?
I mean, they stay shown strictly by size and barcode.
I mean, it's the same.
So we're going to build a module that's about, you know, I think it's about 12,000 square feet in this module and holds about 2.7 million volumes.
That's about eight, yeah.
And then we have four meters.
which is geographically how far from here.
And so how are you selecting the material?
Oh, I'm jumping ahead.
So we're now in the stacks, right?
There were several things that went into our decision-making process.
We're in the stacks.
This is all across my collection.
I'll take you to a deck that's not a great show.
You can see we're crowded.
books are on the floor, books are on top of others.
What do you mean by classified collections?
This is class P. I mean, all of our collections are in classified order by subject.
And this is P, which is part of language and literature.
But basically, our shelter
This is what we want to avoid desperately, and this is what we could not avoid.
Here's a book lying flat.
Well, we're on the floor, and we're trying shifting projects, but in order to shift, we have to have some other space shifting.
But those books, they're on the floor.
If somebody asks for that book,
Are we going to know that it's on the floor over here?
No, you have to kind of look on the floor, and that's part of the problem.
You're not on shelf space.
So actually, that's kind of their home there.
They're not waiting to be shelving.
Well, there's no place to shelving.
So we try to do shifting projects, and a lot of these decks are actually moving material around.
But these are examples of how much shelving you can do.
You've got very crowded areas, and you have areas with a little bit of shelf space.
Sometimes it's a deck away.
And to constantly do this, you have staff and the facilities to do it.
But these are, this is the Jefferson Inn for example.
These are not the worst of the crowded decks, but it's an example.
And how many levels like this do you have?
These decks, actually in this building, there are about between 10 and 13 levels above each other.
And they're double decks.
I see.
When the building was first built,
In 1897.
It's 100 years old this year, the Jefferson Building.
You had decks like this, and then a number of years later, in the early 1900s, they decided they needed more space.
There was a deck like this on the north side and on the south side, parallel up the reading room.
These are called decks.
Decks, yeah.
They built the other decks.
They took part of the quartet to build these twin decks.
So that's why you have double decks on each one.
Are these the original shelves?
Pardon me.
Easy Heist.
These are what?
Carnegie Steel.
Oh, okay.
They're lovely here.
All that.
The answer to the question on how we selected material is a... We have several things going at the same time.
We did this plan three or four years ago, and we had several things that went into our decision making.
First, we really needed blocks of space.
By that I mean we needed a whole deck, because we had a lot of reading room shifted with the renovation, the Asian Division reading room, the African reading room,
moved over to this building, from Adams to Jefferson.
The microphone reading room is moving from here, from Jefferson over to Adams.
So what we needed was blocks of space so we could move those collections to be near the reading rooms when they changed buildings.
So we were not interested in just printing the collection, taking a few books from each shelf.
We were actually interested in creating major blocks of space.
Now, I'm looking at a book, Lewis, How to Read Better and Faster.
Two volumes, two copies of that book.
Okay, that's right.
So actually four copies.
Right.
So are two or three of these copies candidates for going off to Fort Meade?
That would be, yeah.
Now, we have a two-phase plan.
The first phase was we needed to move a lot of material very quickly because we have to get out, and we have stuff on the floor, and as I said, a thousand items in the collection.
So we really have to, and we're way behind off-site, so...
One of the things we decided to do was take entire classes, I said classes, of material for off-site.
This is very different than what Harvard's done.
I mean, Harvard, each library that's contributed to the Harvard facility has kind of taken older material, lesser-used material.
But they're changing in a way, too.
Yeah.
We literally are taking entire classes and subclasses.
So we expect all of Class S, which is agriculture, to go off-site.
And why is that?
It's one of the lesser-used classes.
There's a National Agricultural Library, and we need large blocks of space.
So we want to take entire classes to make large blocks of space.
Part of the medicine class is moving off-site.
Because the National Library of Medicine is less than used material.
Fiction is moving off-site.
So we have a plan to move material by entire classes.
There are several other reasons why we chose that approach.
First of all, it's not as labor-intensive.
If we were to go through this collection, we're talking about 1,000 items a day every day for the rest of our lives, you know, basically.
My life here.
It's very labor-intensive to pull a book here and to decide, well, this is something you might want to copy to.
This is something you don't.
This is a less-used book.
So if you were to do that, I mean, it would take a long time to do it.
By taking an entire class or subclass, literally, we can move.
We're planning on the first two and a half years to move 4,000 items a day.
When is Chris here?
Right now it's the summer of 1999.
My book is coming out in 1999.
I'll be back in touch.
Are you starting?
The trucks will roll in here and you'll be loading 4,000?
4,000 items a day, every day, for two and a half years.
And to get out there.
Wow.
And the other reason is because right now we're in a program to get an integrated library system.
We've never had one yet.
That's a library term.
But we don't have very good inventory control on our collections.
There's no automated inventory control system.
Everything we do is manual.
There's this manual shuffle from the fifth floor of the Madison building.
It has 12 million cards in it that tells you what you're supposed to have and how many copies.
But there's nothing in an automated database.
Have you used our databases here?
That means if you're interested in Lewis's How to Read Better and Faster, you can go into the catalog, into our automated system, and you can look up Lewis, or you can look up under the title How to Read Better and Faster, or probably the subject, you know, reading, and you can find this book.
Great.
And what you can find, what it doesn't tell you,
is how many copies we have, whether it's in circulation, whether it's on the shelf, or anything else.
Well, it's not inventory control.
It's bibliographic.
Bibliographic may tell you the author's title.
It'll tell you we have an item, Gone with the Wind, you know, How to Read Better.
It'll tell you that we have that title.
It doesn't give you any information on the location or how many copies.
There's no peace level.
It's what we call the inventory control part of it.
And again, to use this as an example, not knowing anything about it, let's say this is a very important book and he wrote a preface in this edition, but which was not in this one.
Or maybe he wrote something really important and showed up in this one that wasn't in this one.
This database is not going to indicate any of that.
It's just going to indicate it's just going to give you off the title, subject, you know, the place of publication.
That's right.
So basically, you know in the reading room that we have this title and this author.
What you don't know is whether it's on the shelf, how many copies we have, or any of that type of information.
An integrated library system is supposed to give us that information.
A lot of public libraries and universal libraries have that.
You can go and you can call up this title and it's going to say it's available in this branch and that branch and it's out in circulation or it should be on the shelf, all of that.
So part of our concern when we started selecting materials that determining what was going to off-site storage had to do with the fact, how do we capture this information without an integrated system?
And we're not going to have an integrated system for quite a few years.
I mean, they're working on it.
We're going to procure one.
But if you're in the reading room, and just follow the scenario, because they're not great service for the scenario that we're really concerned with, and you, let's say we send this book off-site.
Let's say it's only one copy of it.
You're in the reading room, and you say, aha, I found how to read better.
In the database, you go to the desk, you submit a call slip, you wait 45 minutes, you get a note on children.
We have no way of knowing this book is off-site.
You have no way to know this book is website.
We have another system, our circulation system, which is an automated system, but it's not tied into our bibliographic database.
So you come up to the desk and say, well, gee, I really need this book.
I came from out of town.
You could find it for me.
We can go into our circulation file and say, aha, that book is in website storage.
Would you like us to order it for you?
But we would much rather people know that up front before they sit in the reading room and wait or all that.
By sending entire class and subsets at this point, all of class S, if somebody orders a book in class S, as soon as they submit the call, we have a sign on the computer.
If your book starts with an S, it's an off-site storage, please see a reference librarian or a technician, and we can tell you how we can get it for you from port meetings and all that.
What do you think the turnover, the turnaround time for port meetings?
We are operating on the premise that we're going to get a very responsive service, that we're going to have twice daily delivery, and
It's one of the reasons we've avoided terms like remote storage, secondary storage.
We're talking about off-site storage or high-density storage because we were really adamant that we wanted a facility that would be nearby, you know, within the ability to do a twice-daily round trip.
And Fort Meade is.
We can do a morning trip.
Who owns the property?
It's the Department of District of Defense.
It's a military base, and it was a downsized military base, so they had some space.
They transferred the property to the architecture.
How much room do you have for modules?
It's a lot of room.
So, I mean, conceivably you can build 20 modules if you want.
We can build 70.
I mean, Harvard has space for 10, right?
Yeah, we can build more.
Well, that's good to know, isn't it?
Over a long period of time.
Right.
Our current plan is to build a module over two years.
So hopefully after the one that opens in 1999, if that's on schedule, there'll be another one in 21, 21, 23, 25.
And when is the Fort Meade one opening?
Supposedly summer of 99, the first module.
At that point, 4,000 books a day.
4,000 books a day.
Five days a week, two and a half years to get a lot of this out.
So what are you going to do for the next year and a half?
After that?
What are you going to do between now and the summer?
Well, we're probably going to get in the next few years a half a million books that we have to make space for.
Here?
Here.
And that's why they're on the floor, and that's why we're doing a lot of...
Shifting, we're trying to double-shell, all kinds of creative things that we can do.
When you press like this... It's a very great discomfort level for us, I can't believe, because we have sprinkler heads, and you don't want those sprinkler heads on the sprinkler heads.
It's not a... You know, from a preservation point of view, a preservation office could tell you a whole bunch of things, but, you know, when you have books on the floor, that's a real problem as far as
You know, being kicked.
I mean, just the normal stuff, but water damage.
When you have books that are very tightly packed on the shelf, people tend to pull them by the top and they're very tight and they rip through the top.
They damage the book.
There are areas you don't see even here where if you had a few taller books just to get an extra shelf, you've turned the book down.
That damages the block.
So there are a lot of preservation issues.
One of the real upsides, I don't know if you've talked to me about Fort Meade and I'll say about our plan.
We are designing, as far as we know, the state-of-the-art environmental system for that facility.
We're building in everything to preserve the book, to preserve the physical item.
The facility's going to be kept at 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
which is much cooler than here, obviously.
But it's excellent for paper.
I think that's cooler than Harvard, too.
Yes, it is cooler than Harvard.
Thirty-five percent of all the humidity, special lighting, so it doesn't emit any harmful rays, sodium vapor lamps, very effective vapor barrier, air exchanges, dust-free environment, special floor covering.
So it's just going to cost you a little figure on that?
I don't have the exact figure on that.
and what it's going to cost.
And actually, the first module is going to be more expensive than the second, third, fourth, and fifth because we're building a lot of common loading dock and processing the work area staff area and all that.
I mean, I can give you a figure, but I don't— Don't run the boat.
I'm just curious.
I'd say it's in the $4 million.
It's not something like that.
No, it's not.
It's a warehouse.
It's a shop.
I mean, the real money is in making sure the environment is what we want.
It's not a lot of money at all.
No, and it's really going to be very, very close to—that's the construction course.
I mean, that's the staffing and forklifts and all that.
That's the National Library.
And so, you know, the security out there is going to be much better, obviously.
We're going to have high-level security, motion detectors, cameras, intrusion detection.
Are you going to have any special collections out there?
Any rare stuff?
Not in the first module.
There's discussion in the second module of having paper-based products that are not booked.
And that would be things like maps, sheet music, and the scripts.
That would obviously have a higher level, although the facility is going to be secure.
I mean, are Harvidsons, the whole libraries and stuff that are departing here?
Well, it's going to be secured, and it's on a military base.
I don't think so.
There won't be any public facilities out there.
I mean, it's purely a work area.
And I think Harvard is comparable to that.
Yeah, Harvard is kind of, excuse me, Harvard, because the faculty were too free to send the books out there.
They wanted a reading room.
Right.
So it's a coffee mess is what it amounts to, you know.
But nobody ever goes out there to read.
They don't allow it, you know.
You know, we actually at one point talked about people going out there.
And...
Yeah, there are frozen kinds.
If you have a scholar or a librarian, they want a whole bunch of stuff, isn't it better?
If they're willing to go and try to transport, especially brittle material.
You might have to have a curator there.
You might have to have a copy machine.
But the decision was taken away from us because I guess part of this transfer from the military, since it is on a military base, is no public facility.
So that's part of the need of the transfer.
So that decision was kind of made for us.
It was made for us.
It was taken out of our head.
The one thing we are planning that Harvard does not have at this point, or at least didn't have the last time I went up there, was some level of content support services, because we are sending newer material.
We are sending a lot of periodicals.
Newer material, yeah.
Yeah, because once we send, our premise now is once we send a class out, like Class S, like I have a poster,
Any item that comes in here in agriculture and process is going directly out to Fort Meade.
So it could be a 1997, at that point a 1999 item.
That's generally not what Harvard does.
But we also serve Congress.
Ken was doing the same thing, though.
He told me brand new stuff is going on.
I said, really?
Then why buy it?
Because this is a private institution.
This is not the Library of Congress.
And he said, I was concerned I might have the same response from the administration.
Because we didn't.
Not a peep.
Because there are certain things we know that we're buying it because we have to buy it.
Right.
And it may be necessary to have it.
But there's no demand for it now.
It goes straight out of the cell phone, you know?
But we're not, unless it goes in a reference collection, even if you know there's demand, it's in one of those classes where a suspect is going after.
So it's not an intellectual, this is probably something we should have, but.
But I was saying, we also want to provide a very responsive reference service.
We obviously have to provide highly responsive service to our top of the client, to Congress.
So we are prepared to do photocopying of articles, look up something, faxing of things, which is something Harvard did not do.
I mean, they deal with a physical piece.
And we understand we've got a deal.
If somebody needs an article for Congress, an author, a researcher, immediately on a rush request, we're willing to do that.
That's going to have to involve the—you don't have to have a specialist out there, a librarian or a student.
Well, maybe a technician.
If they give us a citation of Sports Illustrated, you know, whatever it is, an article— Okay, but I mean, like the fellow whose name escapes me at the moment, Ron Lane.
Ron Lane.
I don't care if they send me the Gutenberg Bible, it's got a barcode on it, and it's in a box, because I don't know what the hell is in the box.
We're not quite that extreme.
Maybe he's being cute.
No, he's not.
He runs a superb facility.
They never lose books.
I mean, if he puts you through the whole process, they check, they double-check, they triple-check.
I was totally impressed.
It is a magnificent process, but...
It is a total non-library setting, and Ron could be dealing with snakes.
Ron's background is in the warehouse.
Yeah, he could be dealing with shoeboxes, and that's fine.
A lot of that's what we're going to do as a warehouse, but we really believe we cannot negate the other part of it, which is we do have to provide service, and we really are prepared, not professional reference service, but
technician level reference, looking for articles, looking for, you know, being able to fax something in or that.
And they've actually talked about that.
If you ever watch a videotape at Harvard, they've actually talked about it.
They don't do it, but they've talked in the past about maybe doing photocopying or faxing or, you know, if the libraries need that.
Do they provide a videotape for people?
What?
There is a videotape.
Harvard has a video tape?
They have a video tape.
It's kind of a promotional video tape.
Well, I mean, do they invite?
I don't know why we're selling it.
Yeah, because they're cost recovery.
That's what I would think.
They're probably selling their plans.
They're selling, you know, they charge the service.
Yep, tell me about it.
Yeah, I mean, they charge storage and they charge the transaction.
Yeah, they charge storage fee and they charge the transaction fee.
To the actual units of the university.
Yeah.
He calls them customers.
The customers.
They charge for the new price, you know, how much material you have in each hole, each return.
And in fact, if you are in the law school and you want a book today, it's going to charge you a hundred bucks.
Otherwise, you'll get it tomorrow.
Yeah.
They charge you a hundred bucks from your account to my account to bring it in today.
And they have a whole free schedule for that.
Obviously, we don't.
That's not what we're doing.
But we do have to provide service.
Ron is very quick to point out, and I really believe this, that nobody likes immature field science.
And we've gone through this.
And we had the same.
When we tried to select what was going out, it was always, well, something obviously has to go out.
We have finite space that looks on the floor.
You know, and I know you have to send something.
Now let me tell you why my collection should not go.
You know, it's always, you know, yeah, we have to cut the budget, but let me tell you why it shouldn't be my budget.
Well, Ken's, Ron is not in that book.
That's Ken's.
Yeah.
And they have, he's worked with the faculty.
Right.
They've set up the criteria.
And the success Ron's had is that they have a superb operation.
If they started losing books or not, you know, not be able to do next-day delivery...
there would be problems.
And we've told the people here, look, the book is not going to be here for browsing.
But if you order in the afternoon, we're going to have it in the next day.
If you order it in the morning or the end of the afternoon, and let me tell you the advantages of the facility.
It's secure.
It's got a state-of-the-art environmental control.
And if you really care about the physical item, you want to protect it from deterioration or somebody just grabbing it or a sprinkler has it, the facility is going to be much better
physical, environmental security protection than you would have here.
And for a lot of people, that's very important.
And once again, I'm under the gun.
We have to produce.
You can say we're going to do twice the end of delivery.
We've got to do it.
So, you know, it's... You're going to have another 500,000 new arrivals here by the time the Fort Meade departs are open.
Is this kind of...
encourage is not the correct word, but persuade you that maybe some books can do the accession.
Well, why do you throw you loose in that?
And I don't talk about it a lot, because I know Dr. Burns doesn't like the accession.
But it happens.
You know, we do some.
I mean, there are things that go out of scope.
You know, I mean, we have done an inventory of the collections.
I don't know if you know anything about our inventory.
Oh, I'd like to know about that.
Yes, I would very much.
The library never really did item-level inventory collections.
And in the 1970s, there was a group of people.
Do you want to sit over your case just a minute?
Oh, fine.
You're right.
In the 1970s, the group of people got together to talk about the not-on-shelf rate.
In fact, they had this not-on-shelf rate.
NOS, not-on-shelf, is the term we used.
When somebody asks for a book, requests a book, and it's not on the shelf, you get a response back that says, not on the shelf.
And it could be not on the shelf for a variety of reasons.
There was a lot of criticism back then.
Well, the staff doesn't look for the book, you know, and all that.
There are probably other reasons that it looks like not on the shelf.
There are a lot of reasons for books not on the shelf.
Some of them are good.
Aretha's using them.
I mean, it's in circulation.
That's a positive.
I mean, we're a library.
We're not a warehouse.
You know, our books are for use.
So it's really good...
when people are using our material.
But, of course, if you're coming with a reading list, a group of people coming with a reading list, the first person gets a book, the other is getting an on-shelf report because the book is gone.
But one of the things that was very clear is that we never did an inventory, in recent memory, we never did an inventory of collections, an item-by-item account, what we had, what might be somewhere else.
And we figured there were a lot of reasons.
Not only use, but something's a miscatalog.
How could you possibly inventory 115 million items?
Well, we started doing it in 1978, and we haven't finished it yet in 1997.
So it's a long process.
So where are you?
And we're only dealing with a book collection.
So 10 million.
Roughly 10 million at this point.
We've almost finished.
The first pass through.
Yeah, but I'm going to say, by the time you're finished, you'll have another four or five million items that have to... So it's obviously going to be an ongoing... So what can you tell me about that?
What we try to do is several things during this inventory.
First of all, we try to account for every copy of every title.
Now, there is this thing that I told you about, these 12 million card shufflers...
It looks like a card catalog, but it's arranged the same way books are arranged on the shelf.
They're in classified order, unlike an author title or a subject catalog.
It's by calling.
And not only does it have a card for each title you're supposed to have, but it also tells you how many copies.
Copy one, copy two.
It also tells you if the copy is somewhere else, like a rare book or something like that, if there's another assignment.
So we literally had a staff that goes to the shelf with a shelfless tray and also the circulation file, because that was before the M1 made the circulation file, so they had a manual little thing of slips.
And they'd go through and they'd say, gee, we had PN 83, I 84, 19, I copy 2, copy 1.
Do we have it?
They're doing this for all 10 million books.
They did this for all 10 million books.
How many people?
Well, at one point, we were at our prime.
We had about 30 people doing this.
And now we have about 10 people doing this.
Every day.
Because we lost a lot of people.
Yeah.
And what they were trying to do, first of all, if a book was brittle or something, they were trying to put out preservation stuff.
We had binding slips.
We had preservation stuff.
Did you have numbers on brittle books?
Yeah.
Not, no.
Percentages?
Do you have an idea?
It depends on what's brittle.
You know, we got this whole thing about fold tests, how many times you can turn the corner down before it breaks.
What kind of a test?
Fold.
You know, something called a fold test, where you would actually, if you can, you know, turn it.
The preservation has things where if you turn down a corner and it breaks after a certain period of time, then it's brittle.
It's brittle.
And I just noticed the folds there.
And this one had a fold.
I just actually opened to a fold.
Yeah, I saw that.
But if it breaks off after a certain period of time, it's a certain period.
We have books that are just extremely adaptive cases, you know, literally.
But did that make them candidates for deacidification?
Well, probably more microfilming.
You can't bind them, and deacertification, supposedly, is... I talked to those people yesterday, yeah.
It's not a paper-strengthening process.
It's supposed to slow down or stop.
The paper's supposed to be working on something... Some strengthening.
But this is... Our premise is we're not going to strengthen these things.
But we did a lot of things in the inventory.
Number one...
we identified items needing binding, labeling, or probably microfilm.
Number two, we replaced... Years and years ago, if you had soft-covered books or pamphlets that were not bound, that could not be bound, they were in something called a gay line.
They were like these red folders.
We replaced them all, but they were kind of
like a red binder with a gray box, and then you would sew these things in or paste them in.
And they were high in acidity, so they destroyed— Oh, okay.
They destroyed the collection of hydrogen.
And so we replaced these.
These are all acid-friandes.
I'm going to write down this title while you're talking.
They're all acid-free, and so they won't destroy the book.
Perhaps more importantly, we embarked upon a shelf marker project.
And what a shelf marker is is a piece of cardboard with a facing stock on it that takes the place of the book on the shelf where it's supposed to be.
I'm listening.
So...
This was very important to us because it told you if a book was not on the shelf, why it was not on the shelf.
And I'm just looking for examples.
For example, if a book is listening to you,
Which means when we did this inventory, that specific time in history when we sat down here and we had the card looking for the book, the book was not on the shelf, we made up a shelf marker for the book.
And this shelf marker took the place of the book.
So if somebody wants Warren Schatz, Reading for Self-Education, his call number, this is specific copy three,
We could tell them that this is missing an inventory.
This book was noted as missing an inventory on November 24, 1982.
This is a standard form.
You got any around that I could have?
I can get you.
Do you mind?
No, not at all.
Can I give you my card?
No.
This was kind of interesting.
I'll tell you two things about it.
It's probably more about inventory than you want to know.
This gave us what we consider a positive response to give to a reader who wanted this book.
Because before we had shelf market, or somebody ordered this book, they would get back and not on shelf before.
They would come up to the desk, they would say, gee, you know, what does this mean?
I got this slip back, and it says, not on shelf.
I said, that's what they said.
I don't know.
Maybe in circulation, somebody might be using it in the reading room, might be missing an inventory, might be missed shelves.
That's not very helpful.
You know, I mean, someone could put in a special search.
But this way, if we could tell the person, this book, no, it's not on shelf, but it's missing an inventory, it's been missing an inventory, and we put the date on the call slip, 1983.
At least we're telling the person, don't come back tomorrow, don't come back next Saturday, resubmit a call slip.
And we do have people on the staff who will
do a special search.
We'll try to find another location that has the book.
It might be Catholic University, American University, but we could actually try to find the book somewhere else.
Now, I hope this is for somebody like in Congress, because this is not for the general reader.
This is for the general public.
I mean, we will try— We would hope that the general public would go to the other facility and— Well, yes.
But if they're here and they say, well, gee, I really need this book, we can look at national catalogs and other things and try to find another library.
So even though they're not getting a book with something like this, we do consider a much more positive response, like we know what we're doing, other than just not on shelf to say it's missing in inventory.
We know that.
Can we help you find another spot to get the book?
Now, did we finish the question on deaccession?
You said, I know Dr. Bollinger doesn't like to discuss that.
We're a national library.
We don't do a lot.
We do do some.
I started saying with the inventory.
There were criteria.
There were certain criteria.
categories of material that are out of scope that we might have collected at one point that are now considered out of scope.
Can you give me an example?
Yeah.
And every time, I can say, every time, when we did the inventory, we did it class by class.
So we did class E, and then we did class B, and then class P, and all that.
We went to the collections policy, collections development people, and we were recommending them.
So we said, okay, we're going to do this.
Can you recommend, you know, give a,
They gave us criteria for what we should be looking at weeding out.
Now, in certain cases, it was multiple copies.
We might have collected a large number of copies, and at one point, we decided in certain classes we only keep one copy of a foreign language and two copies of English language material.
So if we had foreign language copies two and three, or we had English language copies two and three,
we might have discarded them, weeded those out.
Of the same edition?
Yeah, the same edition.
Is it good?
Multiple editions?
No, we keep them.
And I think there's an example of this, how to read fast and better.
This is two copies of one edition, two of the other.
Even if I said copies two and three, if we couldn't find a copy of one, we would keep two copies, so we would keep copies of three.
So we would weed out copies above a certain number.
For example, we went to class L, which is education.
They told us to generally weed out high school yearbooks.
We weren't keeping high school yearbooks.
At one point, I guess, years ago, we collected some high school yearbooks.
So what happened to them?
They're generally sent to exchange and gift.
More recently, we've had projects in medicine where we've gone through and started
reducing some of the copies.
Yes, and in that case, we actually offered these to the National Library of Medicine, and then the things they didn't warrant, we sent down this change in gift.
But we had a cooperative project with the National Library of Medicine.
And agriculture would do this.
Agriculture, we don't collect that comprehensively.
I mean, we don't collect that comprehensively, clinical medicine affecting the agriculture to begin with.
So there are sometimes additional copies of something like high school yearbooks,
textbooks all in a certain date.
There were certain things that we would not retain, you know, and as part of the inventory, we actually did some weeding, you know, according to those criteria.
Now, in all those cases, we, you know, this is a staff of technicians doing this, according to very specific guidelines.
So nothing ever went out.
We kind of gathered them, and we had the specialist to recommend an officer review them, because if they said, gee, this is a really important work, and even though
We really want to keep more copies.
Did you keep a record of the books that you were able to get rid of?
Not, well... I just got back from San Francisco.
The answer is yes in the fact that the shelf list, which is that card file, which is still in existence, is the only way that we would mark, for example, next to copy three, discard.
So what you're telling me is you kept a record.
Oh, yeah, it's in the shelf list.
San Francisco didn't keep a record.
Oh, no.
200,000 books went to the landfill.
Nobody can tell you what they are.
No, I know.
That's... No, this is... Because we have the inventory... The shelf list is the inventory record.
And so we... They mark the shelf list for that copy.
We have shelf list.
Steve, before I forget, what's your phone number?
202-707-1410.
I have to sign books in an hour.
Okay.
I have to go to my hotel and check out... Okay.
These are other, for example, this book is in rare book.
Once again, shelf markers.
Years ago, somebody asked for this book, the N85.
It's not on the shelf.
They were going to not on shelf before.
And that would be it.
That's all they get.
And now they come up to that and say, where it is, we'll do a special search.
But this book is a rare book.
It's not even missing.
I mean, it's one floor away, and it's accessible to the person.
So now if somebody asks for the book, we say, that is in the rare book collection.
What do you call the people that come in here and do that check, the shelvers or the pages?
These were collections improvement systems.
The people that actually, oh, the people that page or the people that... No, the person that comes down and can't find that book.
But this is really important because we have a lot of stuff on microfilm, and we have a lot of things in the rare book or in the reference collection.
And, you know, people have just gotten it on the shelf before.
Now they actually can get right to the book.
We tell them where it is.
And the item-by-item inventory that you've done, is that all in computer now?
Because it started in the 70s.
Do you have a database now for that?
There is not a database.
Any kind of retrospective stuff?
It's all in manual form.
And it should be.
And when we get the integrated library system, one of the promises, we can enter all this into the database.
So it's all online, so I know something's missing in inventory.
That's long-range.
Yeah, the system is probably shorter range, but the system is going to do a lot of things, and before you input 12 million cards and all of this, it's going to be quite a while.
So we can start walking.
Okay.
How are you?
And how long have you been here?
In this job, 20 years.
And your background, just briefly, you said you're a librarian.
Librarian.
I was a public...
We worked for a small public library.
Where?
In New Jersey.
So you don't sound like you came from Kentucky.
I came from New Orleans.
I was working with a blind handicapped in New Jersey.
That sounds like an interesting... We were in the library for the blind handicapped in New Jersey.
Is that a major... Well, part of the Library of Congress is called the National Library of Science for the Blind and Physically Handicapped.
And they have a network of, they work in regional libraries around the country.
And New Jersey was one of them.
Actually, that's why I came down here, because I was working in New Jersey, and then I got a job ahead.
Now, these numbers, 18?
They're probably going down.
So how many?
Well, on one level, it's about eight.
On the other, it's two, four, six.
Many levels.
There are more.
It's about 10 or 12 decks.
Decks.
Decks is a key word.
Yeah.
Where do you have to go from here?
This lift just goes up to the main reading room, which is right above us.
So these conveyors deliver books from all three buildings.
Here, if the reader wants it upstairs, they're put on this lift and they're picked up and delivered to the reader upstairs.
How old is this system?
Not quite a hundred years.
Really?
Not the mechanized system.
No, but it just goes around.
And we have an old tube system, a message tube system.
Pneumatic tube.
So did you go to library school or something like that?
Ah, Rutgers.
Library school.
Yep.
Do they still have it?
Oh, yeah.
You know, Columbia's is gone, Chicago's gone.
No, it's still there.
It's more, it used to be a Rutgers school library.
Now it's
The communications, the school communications is kind of merged, folded into it.
Now, do you work in the collections management division?
Is that what you're?
Yes.
I just noticed on the side over there.
Yeah, this is kind of part of my division.
It's a large division of about 250 people.
And that's probably down from what it once was.
In some areas.
Yeah, mostly behind the scenes.
Are we still in Jefferson?
Yeah.
I mean, they come here for these books and the multimedia.
But, you know, the books are always in different languages, and this is a key part of research.
You said they're here and they're out of any place else.
A lot of our books, people come here because these things are not anywhere else.
We're a national library, and a lot of our collections you don't find anywhere else.
So therefore, the responsibility that you have is as a depository library.
And not only to people now, but to future generations.
There is no other place to find this material.
In many cases.
So when you look at it and decide if it's going off-site, I don't know which way you're going.
I'm down here.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I'll be in touch.
Yeah, let me know.
Excellent.
Thanks a lot.